Instructor: Here's router 1, which is this device
and I'll ping router 2 from router 1
to see if pings succeed.
So pinging 10, 1, 1, 2, pings succeed.
But notice we are getting a message
that there's a duplex mismatch
between the router and the 2950-1 switch.
So we've been told that there's a duplex problem here
and on the switch we are seeing
that there's a duplex mismatch
on fast ethernet 0 3 to the router.
So we've been told that there's a duplex problem here
but we're also told that there's a duplex issue
on fast ethernet 0 4
to the 2950-2 switch on fast ethernet 0 4.
So there's a problem here as well.
Now you may not be physically connected to the console
and hence you may not see these issues.
That's a good reason to use a Syslog server
or a management application
from a company such as SolarWinds.
So let's ping router 2 again, ping succeeds.
So pings aren't necessarily a good way
to test for duplex mismatches.
However, I'll do an extended ping
to that router,
so let's try that again.
10, 1, 1, 2, I'll send a thousand pings
and I'm gonna make the datagram size a large size.
So we want to send a lot of traffic onto the network
and hopefully we'll encounter a problem.
And there you go.
We've got a message saying a late collision has occurred.
So this is a problem you may encounter.
One side may tell you that there are late collisions.
As you can see over there,
we're getting a number of late collisions.
On the other side, we're not seeing that.
So on the switch show interface f 0 slash 3
we're not seeing a lot of late collisions.
The configuration of that interface
is set to a speed of 10 meg and duplex of full.
But notice on this side, show run interface f 0,
this side has its speed set to 100.
Let's confirm that, show interface f 0.
Notice the duplex is half,
speed is set in this example to 10 megabits per second.
So the router, because it can't negotiate properly
with the other device, in this case the 2950 switch,
has set its speed to a value of 10 meg half duplex.
So the point to remember is when there is a mismatch,
the side that is set for half duplex
will see late collisions on the connection.
But this only occurs when you're sending enough traffic.
So a standard ping doesn't show that problem
but when a large amount of traffic is sent
on this half duplex connection,
we're getting a late collisions.
On the switch side,
show interface f 0 slash 3.
Notice the speed is full duplex, 10 megabits per second,
whereas on the router it's half duplex,
10 megabits per second.
Even though I configured it to use 100 megabits per second,
it's using a failback position of the worst case scenario,
which is 10 meg, half duplex.
And in this case, we are having that problem.
Notice this is 100BaseTX/FX
whereas this side is 100BaseTX.
So in this example,
the router has gone for half duplex, 10 megabits per second
whereas the switch is using 10 meg, full duplex.
And hence we've got a duplex mismatch.
So in summary, we get told by CDP
that there is a duplex mismatch.
The local interface is not using full duplex
whereas the other side is using full duplex.
Pinging a device doesn't tell us that there's a problem
but when large packets are sent,
user's may encounter drops,
poor throughput, and you may see late collisions.
So let me saturate that link again.
Send a thousand pings,
large datagram size,
show interface f 0 slash 3.
Notice, we are now seeing the late collisions taking place
on the interface.
So on the half duplex side,
we see this output of late collisions.
On the interface show interface f 0,
notice the number of late collisions has increased.
On the full duplex side, we may get input errors
such as CRC errors or runt frames.
So in this example, we've got 28 input errors, 15 CRCs.
We aren't seeing any runts
but we are receiving duplex mismatch messages.